 Marketing is hard. But I'll tell you a little secret. It doesn't have to be. Let me point something out. You're listening to a podcast right now, and it's great. You love the host. You seek it out and download it. You listen to it while driving, working out, cooking, even going to the bathroom. Podcasts are a pretty close companion. And this is a podcast ad. Did I get your attention? You can reach great listeners like yourself with podcast advertising from Lib Sin ads. Choose from hundreds of top podcasts offering host endorsements or run a pre-produced ad like this one across thousands of shows to reach your target audience in their favorite podcasts with Lib Sin ads. Go to LibSynads.com. That's L-I-B-S-Y-N. Ads.com today. Hey, this is Amy from Real English Conversations. And today, we're going to be talking about some of the different experiences we've had while traveling through various airports. And for the real English tips, we're going to give you some ways to talk about different time zones. Welcome to realenglishconversations.com. The podcast where you can study the art of real English conversation while listening to fun and interesting topics. Hey, guys. This is Amy and Curtis. And today, we're going to do a conversation that one of our listeners actually suggested to us. So who was that? That was El Thredo. And he's living in Venezuela. No, he is from Venezuela. Oh, OK. Where's he living? He's living in Argentina and working as a pilot. Oh, that's a cool job. So what did he ask us to talk about? Well, because he is a pilot, he asked us to talk about some of our experiences in airports. And specifically, doing it in another language. Yeah. This can be tricky at times. Yeah. So if you guys have been listening to the podcast for a while, you're going to know that we've done quite a bit of traveling. I mean, where have we been? We've been to Urteu, Hawaii. Yeah. We've been to California. We've been to Costa Rica. Yeah, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, Ecuador. And upcoming, we have a trip plan to Ecuador again and to Colombia. And this next vacation is going to be three months. And I think we might be able to this time when we go to the airports. We might actually have an experience to do the whole process of the customs and checking in with the customs agent, getting the passport stamped and stuff. I think we might be able to do it completely in Spanish this time. Yeah, I'm feeling a little more confident. That's for sure. Yeah. So the last times that we've traveled, we've really had a fairly limited level of the language. Yes. I know when we came back from Ecuador after we came back, after I had been there for six weeks, I was still just a beginner looking back now. I thought I was better than I was, but looking back now, I can see I was pretty basic. And I was basic, basic. You were like a newbie. Like, you knew words. You didn't know grammar, how to put anything together. OK, so we have a couple of stories. We'll talk about two that are related to airport travel specifically. Yes. And the third one is still, I mean, it's when you need to communicate certain and specific information, but it's actually related to a surfboard rental. OK. So, but we kind of thought it was on the same note because you're having to communicate something in a non-native language with whatever words you have. So, what was the first experience that we had where we had to find out certain information? Yeah. And the person that we were talking to didn't know English. We experienced this in Panama. Mm-hmm, Panama City. Panama City. And we were flying to a different part of Panama. Yeah, so we came in on an international flight. Yeah. And we had landed. And there is a boat, I think an hour and a half layover in between our flights. And we had to find the, I guess, the domestic flight connection. Yes. So, a domestic flight is a flight within the country. And anyway, I asked the, I don't know who it was. You know those people that are kind of at the, they're near the area where you get your tickets and boarding passes. They're kind of at the end to help you. They're like an assistant to guide you around or give you an assistant. And or. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, I asked one of those people, you know, how do you, or where is the flight connection? We're going to a Boca State thorough. Where, where do we go to get that flight? And, you know, he looked at me and he said, oh no, you need to be at the other airport. It's a 35-minute taxi ride from here. And we had to catch the plane in, in hour and a half. And an hour and a half and there was no way. And luckily, I don't trust what people tell me the first time when I know that it's probably wrong. Your gut instinct was. No, I knew our airplane was flying out of the Panama International Airport. Yeah. And that, that's it. I knew it was there. It wasn't, I knew about the other airport that he was talking about and I knew on our ticket that that wasn't the one that I had booked. And this was very limited Spanish. Very, very limited. Because this is prior to our Ecuador trip. So this is about three years ago that we did this one. And anyway, so I asked another person and I asked another person and finally we got the answer. And where was the terminal? The terminal was like a was outside and we had to walk to it. Yeah. And it was a crazy climate difference because the air in Panama city is super hot, very humid, moist air. Yeah. And the little waiting room was like a nice box. What extreme to the other? Yeah, it was interesting. But anyway, we got where we needed to go and everything was fine. But in this case, we had to use our limited Spanish to try to make a very important connection. And we didn't really have very much time. So it was, it gives you a little bit of anxiety when you can't communicate with the Indian. And you know you have another plane attached. Yeah. And what happened with the second one? I think it was in Quito and Ecuador. Yeah. And it was really, really early in the morning. Oh, yeah. Because they make you show up three hours early for an international flight connection. But it wasn't even the check-in area wasn't even open. No, there was nobody around. We were like, are we in the right area? Oh, yeah. And again, I forgot about that. But we had to ask around in Spanish and try to make sure that that was the area that we were supposed to be. And then some of the employees showed up a few more people started to line up in the Q line. And yeah, we were just standing there waiting to get to the counter. And we got to the counter and there was a problem. Yeah. And I think I know what the problem was. The problem was that we had changed our flights two weeks ago. And we were supposed to originally leave Ecuador and fly to Peru for two weeks. But we changed our mind because we were having such a good time on the coast in Ecuador. Yeah. We decided to stay longer. So somewhere in that process, when we went to go get our boarding passes, we needed to do some sort of extra step, some sort of registration. I don't know what it was. Yeah, maybe we had to sign a different piece of paper. Or I don't know. But I remember the lady, the first lady. She didn't speak English. None. And she was trying to explain to us what we needed. And she had to actually get another attendant that spoke a bit of English to explain what we needed to do. And I don't think that I would have, like, if I didn't know any Spanish, I don't know what I would have done in that situation. And anyway, so we had to go over to the other lady. And what was that like? It was a very bad experience. She didn't want to be at work that day. She was in a bad mood. That was the first Ecuadorian that we met that wasn't happy. That was the only Ecuadorian that we met that wasn't happy. And yeah, we were like the Latin American people when they're referring to North Americans that don't speak Spanish. They call them gringos. So we were a couple of gringos and we show up. And we needed help with something. And I don't even know what I needed help with. I handed her this piece of paper, tried to answer her questions, and you know. We're all sleepy headed because it's early in the morning. We only have three hours of sleep, or something. It's crazy. And anyway, we got through that process. I don't know how. I thought we got through that. And we went through the check-in area. And because I was so tired, I forgot to take off my belt. And I had my cell phone tucked in in my pocket. And of course, when I went through the metal detector. Yeah, yeah. Had to. The alarm went off. Yeah. And I had to go shoot. I forgot my belt. And here's my cell phone. And the guy put it through a separate bin. But behind other people's bins, the bins for the security screening. And anyway, so we went through, OK, I passed the test. No metal. And we put on our shoes and our laptop back in the backpack. Yeah, repact everything up. Yeah. And off we went. And just after I left the security area, that you can't return back into. Yeah, we were going through. It was like a duty-free kind of area or something there. Just a security. Yeah, duty-free. Where they sell alcohol that's tax-free or perfumes and electronics and things like that. Every airport has it. Yeah. And I went, oh no, I forgot my cell phone. Where's my cell phone? And of course, I'm panicking. Because all my cell phone has all my contacts on it. Yeah. It's expensive. Cell phones are expensive. And so anyway, I found the first security guy. Or I think he was maybe a janitor or something like that. Oh, yeah. And I had to communicate what I forgot in the security area in Spanish. In Spanish. And he took us back through and it got us to the security area again. Yeah, the security agents were funny. Yeah, they were actually joking around. They were pranking on me. They knew what I was looking for. They knew I was on and they were asking me to describe it. So anyway, I was like, well, it's a black phone. I'm using very, very simple words. That's what I knew. And the guy asked me. And I think he was just doing it just to get that confused look on my face of like, what? Did you just ask me? But he asked me if it was a light black cell phone or a dark black cell phone. And of course, there's no such thing. Black is black. Right? And yeah, it was funny. But then he laughed and he just laughed at me and handed it back to me. So what is your non-aeroport experience? Oh, OK. So what happened with our last vacation we were in a fairly small town on the coast in Ecuador. And I remember there were only three people that spoke, well, varying levels of English. Most of them, it was like, I can count to 10 or save prices in English. Yeah. That was two of them. And the third one was actually a Chinese guy that was down there and he had learned Spanish and he knew English. And luckily, this Chinese guy, when I first made the deal with him to rent a surfboard, he knew English. And I was able to communicate it because I kind of went into the situation unplanned. Like somebody had said, I think you can run to surfboard at this internet cafe. And I hadn't looked up any words to do with renting or talking about transportation, trying to get it delivered. So I had no idea how to express these ideas. And I was really, really happy when I went in. And there was the first and only time I asked anybody on the trip if they spoke English. Oh, yeah. And he did. And it was like, oh, OK. Oh, perfect. And the thing that was complicated about it was that I actually needed the surfboard rental for about three weeks. And our accommodation was about three or four kilometers from the town. And I needed to have it delivered and picked up when I was finished with the surfboard. And I think because it was a long-term rental and it was kind of the slow season, he decided that it would be OK. And he would rent me the surfboard and deliver it to the location. And that was fine. Of course, that was in English. So that was fine. And then when I went back at the end of the time where I was finished using the surfboard and I was trying to arrange for it to be picked up and brought back. To be returned because I had no way of getting the surfboard back to rental, please. And we weren't going to walk down the street. It's a little too far. And it was a big surfboard. It wasn't like a little four, five-foot surfboard. It was a long board. So it'd be hard to get. I don't even think we could get it on the bus. No. So anyway, we went back. And I think it was his wife or something. Yeah. And I had prepared this time for the conversation. I learned the words I needed. I even wrote out a little explanation just in case she couldn't understand my horrible Spanish accent. Yeah, I think you even rehearsed it with me if you tell me. Oh, totally. I was prepared for this conversation. And I went into the surf shop, the internet cafe, slash surfboard rental place. And the lady I was talking to her, and she had this look on her face like I was talking German or something. And this was the only experience that I have ever had when I was trying to communicate in a foreign language. And the person just did not get it. They could not understand it. Maybe they were bad with understanding foreign accents in that language. I don't really know. But it was pretty frustrating. It was hard. Yeah. It was really surprising to me. And really awkward. Because I was like, I don't know what to do here. OK, well, I'm going to leave. And hopefully when I come back, someone else is working that understands broken Spanish. And anyway, so this experience that actually gave me a really interesting sensation because when I left, of course, when you're trying to communicate and someone can't understand you, it kind of affects your confidence a little bit. It does. You're like, oh, am I that bad? Yeah, am I? Is my accent that bad? Am I pronouncing something or everything really, really poorly or? Yeah, yeah. And I realized after that, no, this isn't a case. And I've come across this a few different times through language partners that I've been practicing with. And they have said similar things to me. Like one of my Colombian friends, he said that when he was in the United States and he was trying to communicate, people would just not give him the time of day. And I told him, it's not that his English is bad. It's that those people are not, they're not trying. No. And you can't force someone to try to understand you. They either want to or they don't. Yeah, it's a choice. It doesn't mean you're bad. Like you're trying, man. You don't know their language like a native. You can't help it. You're trying. You're doing the best you can. And if they're not trying to understand you, that's their problem. And you should never let that affect your confidence ever. No. You're not available. People that genuinely want to help will help. And that was the most important thing. So anyway, I ended up the next day we came back and we talked to the son-in-law. And he called his dad and his dad knew about me and he knew where I was staying and everything was fine. We managed to get the surfboard picked up and delivered and I paid them for the rental and everything. Everything worked out. And everything worked out. So those are some of the situations that we've faced in our travels, in a foreign language. I mean, there's been many more stories, usually on the bus. But in respect to airport travel and important situations where you needed to communicate. Yeah, and facing some language barriers. And we've got the real English chip coming up. Yeah. Real English conversational tip. All right. So for today's English tip, we are going to just talk about time zones and how to, especially when you're doing airport travel and you're crossing time zones. Yeah. You need to talk about what the time is, where you're going, or what it was, or will be. Yeah. And it's a little bit confusing. So we just wanted to give you some examples about how you can express this exactly like you should in English. So, Curtis, if we were flying to Toronto from Colona, this is four provinces away from where we are. And there's three different time zones. Yeah. OK. So because where we are, we would say we're behind Toronto time. Yes. Toronto is three hours ahead. OK. So if we left here at four o'clock in the afternoon, and our flight is three hours. Yes. And Toronto is three hours ahead. Yeah. What time will we arrive? That would be 10 o'clock at night. Yeah, you're right. I had to think about it. My math is good today, I guess. Yeah. Sometimes it's not. That's why I was thinking about it. OK. So for example, when I'm trying to coordinate times with different people for language lessons, or if I want to talk to one of my friends on Skype for practice myself, I have to always talk about time zones, because they usually live in a different time zone than me. So most of the people that I talk to are two hours ahead of me. OK. So when they say what time is it there, I tell them the time. And then I say, I'm two hours behind. Yeah. Yeah. So that's pretty much what we do. If the place that the place that you're flying to or the person is in a different country, and their time is ahead of you, as you say, your blank hours ahead of me, your five hours ahead, your 10 hours ahead, whatever it is. And if it's the other way, like us here out in the west of Canada, we're always behind everyone. We're three hours behind Toronto, for example. So anyway, that's how you can talk about different time zones and the normal way that people express that concept. Yeah. So yeah, if you guys haven't been to our website yet, I encourage you to come to realEnglishconversations.com and sign up as a free member. We have access to three of our most popular conversations with transcripts. And you can download the slower versions of the audio. And yeah, lots of good free resources there for you to check out. And kind of gives you a sample of what you're going to get as a premium membership. Yeah. But the free member stuff has most of the features. Of course, as a premium member, you get access to the speaking exercises, the phrasal verb course. And I know just more of everything. We've got a whole bunch of stuff in the member section, the premium member section. So we'll see you there. If you're enjoying this podcast, please take a moment to subscribe and leave a comment for us. We'd love to hear your support or feedback. Come to our website at realEnglishconversations.com to get access to a transcription of this audio that explains some of the vocabulary we have used in this lesson, a full transcription, and some exercises to help you practice what you've learned. See you guys next time.